\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@setfilename fdiamondengine.info
@settitle FDiamondEngine user and developer manual

@set UPDATED 18 May 2012
@set UPDATED-MONTH May 2012
@set EDITION SVN
@set VERSION SVN

@titlepage
@title FDiamondEngine user and developer manual
@subtitle A User's Guide for FDiamondEngine
@subtitle May, 2012
@author Fabio J. Gonzalez @email{fabiojosue@@gmail.com} 
@email{gonzalfj@@users.sourceforge.net}

Copyright @copyright{} 2012
Fabio J. Gonzalez

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU
Free Documentation License''.

@end titlepage

@ifnottex @c texi2pdf don't understand copying and insertcopying ???
@c modifications must also be done in the titlepage
@copying
Copyright @copyright{} 2012
Fabio J. Gonzalez

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU
Free Documentation License''.
@end copying
@c WTF does the info get the copying output and the plaintext output not ????
@ifplaintext
@insertcopying
@end ifplaintext
@end ifnottex

@contents

@node Top, (dir), (dir)

@top General Introduction
The complete engine for 3D games and more.
The main focus of FDiamondEngine is GNU/Linux
but may work on other systems (who knows?).
This manual will introduce you, FDiamondEngine.
It will teach you how to create games,
reading/writing songs and videos, using
the event system, how to create 
graphical user interfaces etc.
The new versions of FDiamondEngine are under terms of
GNU GPL, instead of GNU LGPL.
For more details, download FDiamondEngine and 
see file COPYING. @xref{Getting FDiamondEngine}

@menu
* Preface::
* Introduction::
* Copying this manual::
@end menu

@node Preface
@chapter Preface

@menu
* Official web site::
* Getting FDiamondEngine::
@end menu

@node Official web site
@section Official web site
I suggest visiting the official website of
FDiamondEngine, it can contain information
about the current state of development of
FDiamondEngine.
Currently the official website of FDiamondEngine
is @url{http://fgc.sf.net}.

@node Getting FDiamondEngine
@section Getting FDiamondEngine

@menu
* From SVN::
* Released versions::
@end menu

@node From SVN
@subsection From SVN
SVN stores a historic of all changes.
Can be reversed to any stage of
development.
To begin open a @dfn{command line}(like @command{konsole} in @dfn{KDE}
or @command{terminal}).
Create a directory called 
@file{FDiamondEngine} unsing 
@code{@command{mkdir} @file{FDiamondEngine}}
use @code{@command{svn} checkout 
@url{svn://svn.code.sf.net/p/fgc/code/trunk}}
to obtain the latest version of FDiamondEngine
Using SVN you can get the latest changes in
the project.
Latest changes can be both bug fixes and
new features. These two things are separated
in different directories in SVN
repository.
@table @code

@item Directory @file{trunk}
The latest features added to FDiamondEngine. Downloading it,
you can get the very latest changes in FDiamondEngine.
It is very likely that this version is highly unstable.
As always here is the latest version, the version number
is always @dfn{1.0.0}.

@item Directory @file{tags}
When the work is done or almost done. The work is copied
to this directory, where, not adds new features, there are
only bug fixes. At this point, get a version number. 
After spending some time in this directory, the versions
are released. There may be bug fixes even after the
launch. Therefore there should be only two version numbers,
not three(You should know that the third number is used
only for correction of BUGS. FDiamondEngine is installed on
your machine using only the first two numbers).

@item Directory @file{extra}
This is not released. They are just demos and tests during
the development of FDiamondEngine and other things.

@item Directory @file{website}
The development of the official web page of FDiamondEngine.

@end table

@node Released versions
@subsection Released versions
You can get all the releases of FDiamondEngine on page 
@url{http://sourceforge.net/projects/fgc/files/}. 
To download the latest version, visit 
@url{http://sourceforge.net/projects/fgc/files/latest/download}

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction

@menu
* What is FDiamondEngine?::  A brief description of FDiamondEngine
* What do FDiamondEngine?:: A list of main features
@end menu

@node What is FDiamondEngine?
@section What is FDiamondEngine?

FDiamondEngine is a library to easy creation
of various types of programs, such as video
editors, games, etc. FDiamondEngine is an
abstraction layer for some libraries, too.

@node What do FDiamondEngine?
@section What do FDiamondEngine?

FDiamondEngine is planned to allow you
simply and quickly to:
@table @dfn
@item Media
Load and write media( eg AVI, MPEG, OGG Vorbis, MP3 ).
Using FDiamondEngine, you can simply and generically,
to play various formats of video/audio.

@item Its own graphical interface
Draw on the screen fields with values animation support 
(As the Blender(enter the frame typing @kbd{@key{I}}))
for graphical interaction with the User.

@item Its own event system
Make programs that respond to events, add many functions
to the same event. The abstraction layer FDiamondEngine 
provides support to various types of events 
(or fEvents, if you prefer).

@item Its own thread system
You can make lines of threads in synchronism. You can make
lines of threads to run simultaneously and one after 
another, including mixing any lines. A function called outside
threads(fThreads system) system can enter the system using a
existent 'fThread' and exit the system quickly.

@item Its own sound system
FDiamondEngine becomes playing sounds in the @dfn{background},
using the threads system (or fthreads). Samples are
automatically placed in play line and played.
All this is trying to stop you work as little as
possible.
You can synthesize instrument sounds using FDiamondEngine.
As also detect the frequency of sound waves, in other words
synthesize the sound of an instrument playing the music that
you sing.

@end table

@node Copying this manual
@appendix Copying this manual

@menu
* GNU Free Documentation License::  License for copying this manual
@end menu

@include fdl.texi

@bye
