\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@setfilename fgameengine.info
@settitle FGameEngine user and developer manual

@set UPDATED 18 May 2012
@set UPDATED-MONTH May 2012
@set EDITION SVN
@set VERSION SVN

@titlepage
@title FGameEngine user and developer manual
@subtitle A User's Guide for FGameEngine
@subtitle May, 2012
@author Fabio J. Gonzalez @email{fabiojosue@@gmail.com} 
@email{gonzalfj@@users.sourceforge.net}

Copyright @copyright{} 2012
Fabio J. Gonzalez

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU
Free Documentation License''.

@end titlepage

@ifnottex @c texi2pdf don't understand copying and insertcopying ???
@c modifications must also be done in the titlepage
@copying
Copyright @copyright{} 2012
Fabio J. Gonzalez

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU
Free Documentation License''.
@end copying
@c WTF does the info get the copying output and the plaintext output not ????
@ifplaintext
@insertcopying
@end ifplaintext
@end ifnottex

@contents

@node Top, (dir), (dir)

@top General Introduction
The complete engine for 3D games and more.
The main focus of FGameEngine is GNU/Linux
but may work on other systems (who knows?).
This manual will introduce you, FGameEngine.
It will teach you how to create games,
reading/writing songs and videos, using
the event system, how to create 
graphical user interfaces etc.
The new versions of FGameEngine are under terms of
GNU GPL, instead of GNU LGPL.
For more details, download FGameEngine and 
see file COPYING. @xref{Getting FGameEngine}

@menu
* Preface::
* Introduction::
* Copying this manual::
@end menu

@node Preface
@chapter Preface

@menu
* Official web site::
* Getting FGameEngine::
@end menu

@node Official web site
@section Official web site
I suggest visiting the official website of
FGameEngine, it can contain information
about the current state of development of
FGameEngine.
Currently the official website of FGameEngine
is @url{http://fgc.sf.net}.

@node Getting FGameEngine
@section Getting FGameEngine

@menu
* From SVN::
* Released versions::
@end menu

@node From SVN
@subsection From SVN
SVN stores a historic of all changes.
Can be reversed to any stage of
development.
To begin open a @dfn{command line}(like @command{konsole} in @dfn{KDE}
or @command{terminal}).
Create a directory called 
@file{FGameEngine} unsing 
@code{@command{mkdir} @file{FGameEngine}}
use @code{@command{svn} checkout 
@url{svn://svn.code.sf.net/p/fgc/code/trunk}}
to obtain the latest version of FGameEngine
Using SVN you can get the latest changes in
the project.
Latest changes can be both bug fixes and
new features. These two things are separated
in different directories in SVN
repository.
@table @code

@item Directory @file{trunk}
The latest features added to FGameEngine. Downloading it,
you can get the very latest changes in FGameEngine.
It is very likely that this version is highly unstable.
As always here is the latest version, the version number
is always @dfn{1.0.0}.

@item Directory @file{tags}
When the work is done or almost done. The work is copied
to this directory, where, not adds new features, there are
only bug fixes. At this point, get a version number. 
After spending some time in this directory, the versions
are released. There may be bug fixes even after the
launch. Therefore there should be only two version numbers,
not three(You should know that the third number is used
only for correction of BUGS. FGameEngine is installed on
your machine using only the first two numbers).

@item Directory @file{extra}
This is not released. They are just demos and tests during
the development of FGameEngine and other things.

@item Directory @file{website}
The development of the official web page of FGameEngine.

@end table

@node Released versions
@subsection Released versions
You can get all the releases of FGameEngine on page 
@url{http://sourceforge.net/projects/fgc/files/}. 
To download the latest version, visit 
@url{http://sourceforge.net/projects/fgc/files/latest/download}

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction

@menu
* What is FGameEngine?::  A brief description of FGameEngine
* What do FGameEngine?:: A list of main features
@end menu

@node What is FGameEngine?
@section What is FGameEngine?

FGameEngine is a library to easy creation
of various types of programs, such as video
editors, games, etc. FGameEngine is an
abstraction layer for some libraries, too.

@node What do FGameEngine?
@section What do FGameEngine?

FGameEngine is planned to allow you
simply and quickly to:
@table @dfn
@item Media
Load and write media( eg AVI, MPEG, OGG Vorbis, MP3 ).

@item Its own graphical interface
Draw on the screen fields with values animation support 
(As the Blender(enter the frame typing @kbd{@key{I}}))
for graphical interaction with the User.

@item Its own event system
Make programs that respond to events, add many functions
to the same event. The abstraction layer FGameEngine 
provides support to various types of events 
(or fEvents, if you prefer).

@item Its own thread system
You can make lines of threads in synchronism. You can make
lines of threads to run simultaneously and one after 
another, including mixing any lines. A function called outside
threads(fThreads system) system can enter the system using a
existent 'fThread' and exit the system quickly.

@item Its own sound system
FGameEngine becomes playing sounds in the @dfn{background},
using the threads system (or fthreads). Samples are
automatically placed in play line and played.
All this is trying to stop you work as little as
possible.

@end table

@node Copying this manual
@appendix Copying this manual

@menu
* GNU Free Documentation License::  License for copying this manual
@end menu

@include fdl.texi

@bye
